This GitHub repository WFSC_cadence contains some of the code for JWST
OTE Science Performance Memo 5: The Optimal Wavefront Sensing Cadence.
Written by Roeland van der Marel at STScI in 2024-2025.

Files and functionalities are as follows:

jumps.dat :
  Columns 1 and 2 of Table 2 of the Memo. Column 1 (using the exact
  time of day, not listed in Column 1), was transformed to a day
  counter using Modified Julian Day - 59730.  An MJD calculator is
  available on the internet at e.g.  https://planetcalc.com/503/
  . Additional jumps were added for the time period after that
  considered in the memo, complete through May 6, 2025. The rows of
  this ascii file were sorted in ascending order by the day counter.

jumps_histograms.ipynb :
  Jupyter notebook that reads the file jumps.dat and creates a
  histogram of jump sizes over various time intervals similar to that
  shown in Figure 3 of the Memo. As is, the notebook considers the
  entire record in jumps.dat. To create instead a plot for the date
  range considered in the Memo, modify the variables xend and z3 as
  indicated in the comments of the notebook. Jumps over 100nm are
  neither counted nor plotted.

jumps_histograms.jpg :
  jpg file created by running jumps_histograms.ipynb .

WFSCsim.f :
  Fortran program to perform the Monte-carlo simulations discussed in
  Section 6 of the Memo. To run the program, it needs to be downloaded and
  compiled. This program was tested and run with the gfortran compiler,
  which can be installed e.g. using homebrew. To compile the program in a
  unix environment, issue
    prompt> gfortran WFSCsim.f -o WFSCsim.e
  Then to run the program, issue
    prompt> WFSCsim.e
  The program will ask to interactively enter the (integer) random seed
  to use. Running the program with different seeds will yield different
  Monte-carlo realizations. All other model parameters (including those
  in Table 1 of the Memo) are hardcoded into the program (above the line that
  is labeled "201"). To run the program with different parameters, first edit
  the code, and then recompile it. 
 
WFSCsim.out* (where * runs from 1 through 6) :
  The output files generated by running the aforementioned program.
  The current output files are the ones generated using the input file
  WFSCsim.in. The output files do not at present have header
  lines. To assert what is listed in the columns, please investigate
  the fortran source code. Several of the output files are read and used by
  the plotting routines discussed below. Please investigate these plotting
  routines to identify the few columns that are most relevant for the
  interpretation of the results. Remaining columns are largely for
  added detail and debugging purposes. 

  The output files are included here only as examples. The file
  WFSCsim.out6 is not included, because it is quite large (13 GB for a
  run with 8000 Monte-carlo simulations). It can be recreated by
  running the program.

WFSCsim_optimize.sm :
  Supermongo routine used to create Figure 2 of the Memo. It reads
  Monte-carlo results from the file WFSCsim.out3 and analytical
  results from the file WFSCsim.out4. A python/mathplotlib version of
  this routine does not currently exist.  However, such a routine can
  created relatively easily by reviewing the supermongo files,
  asserting what columns are read and plotted, and translating the
  commands to python.

WFSCsim_timeline.sm :
  Supermongo routine used to plot a simulated timeline. Similar to
  Figure 5 of the Memo, but with a different random realization. The
  routine reads a single Monte-carlo timeline from the file
  WFSCsim.out1 and reads linear segment fits from the file
  WFSCsim.out5. To obtain a different timeline, rerun the fortran
  program with a different Monte-carlo seed. A python/mathplotlib
  version of this routine does not currently exist. However, such a
  routine can created relatively easily by reviewing the supermongo
  files, asserting what columns are read and plotted, and translating
  the commands to python.

WFSCsim_tails_histograms.ipynb :  
  Jupyter notebook used to create Figures 6 and 7 of the Memo.
  It reads the file WFSCsim.out6 and makes histograms that characterize
  the tails of the simulated WFE distributions. 

WFSCsim_tails_histograms1*.jpg
  jpg files created by running WFSCsim_tails_histograms.ipynb
